awk
awk is programming language
designed for text processing
and is typically used as a data
extraction and reporting tool.
It is also extremely powerful and can
be quite complex,
so again we will only scratch
the surface here.
A commonly used switch with awk is -F,
which is the field separator,
and the print command,
which outputs the result text.
Here we echoed a line,
and piped it to awk
to extract the first and third fields
using a double-colon as a
field separator.
The most prominent difference between
the cut and awk examples we used,
is that cut can only accept a single
character as a field delimiter,
while awk is much more flexible.
As a general rule of thumb,
use a single awk command instead
of multiple cut operations.